.TH NGINXFMT 1 "July 2026" "nginxfmt 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nginxfmt \- format nginx configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nginxfmt
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nginxfmt
reads an nginx configuration file, formats it according to configurable style
rules, and writes the result to standard output by default.
.PP
When \fIFILE\fR is omitted or set to \fB\-\fR, input is read from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-write
Write formatted output back to \fIFILE\fR instead of stdout.
.TP
.B \-\-check
Exit with status 1 if the input is not already formatted.
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Load formatting options from \fIPATH\fR instead of discovering \fB.nginxfmt.toml\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-tabs
Indent with tab characters.
.TP
.B \-\-spaces
Indent with spaces.
.TP
.BR \-\-indent-width " " \fIN\fR
Number of spaces per indentation level. Default is 4.
.TP
.BR \-\-brace-style " " \fIstyle\fR
Brace placement style: \fBsame_line\fR or \fBnext_line\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-max-blank-lines " " \fIN\fR
Maximum number of consecutive blank lines to preserve.
.TP
.BR \-\-trailing-newline " " \fIbool\fR
Whether output should end with a trailing newline.
.TP
.BR \-\-preserve-inline-comments " " \fIbool\fR
Whether inline comments should remain on the same line.
.SH CONFIG FILE
If present, \fB.nginxfmt.toml\fR is discovered by walking up from the input
file directory. CLI flags override file values.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.EX
indent_style = "spaces"
indent_width = 4
brace_style = "same_line"
max_blank_lines = 1
trailing_newline = true
preserve_inline_comments = true
.EE
.SH EXAMPLES
Format a file and print to stdout:
.PP
.EX
nginxfmt conf/nginx.conf
.EE
.PP
Format in place:
.PP
.EX
nginxfmt --write conf/nginx.conf
.EE
.PP
Check formatting in CI:
.PP
.EX
nginxfmt --check conf/nginx.conf
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, non-zero on parse/config errors or when \fB\-\-check\fR fails.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nginx (8)
